We now need to take a look at the ticket that we just fetched out of the database and decide whether
or not this thing has been reserved.
So to do this step right here, we really have to understand what it means to be reserved.
How is a ticket reserved in general?
What does it mean to be reserved?
Well, remember, we spent a lot of time to talk about Mongoose and how we're going to associate an
order with a ticket.
So we spoke about Mongoose and that ref and populate feature.
We also took a look at a couple of code snippets.
So if a ticket is reserved, that means that it has been associated with an order.
And on top of that, the order document must have a status of not cancelled.
So if an order is cancelled, the order is cancelled, it is not valid and the ticket that it is associated
with is not a valid reservation anymore.
And so that should mean that the ticket is available to be registered or reserved by another order.
So what we really have to write out right here, we have to write out some kind of query that's going
to take a look at all the different orders inside of our order collection.
We have to find one order where the ticket is equal to the ticket that we just reserved and where it's
status is anything but canceled.
That's essentially a criteria.
I'm going to put a comment here just to kind of iterate all that stuff.
So we need to run query.
To look at all orders.
And we want to find an order.
Where the ticket is.
The ticket we just fetched.
Or I should say.
How about the one we just found on the line right above?
And the orders status is not cancelled.
So if we.
Find an order from this.
That means the ticket is reserved.
So that's essentially a criteria.
That's what we're trying to do right here.
So how are we going write this query out?
Well, really just comes down to doing a little bit of research with Mongoose and whatnot.
Let's just take a look at what the query is.
So we're going to say Order.
Is a wait order dot.
Find one.
So we're going to try to find one order in our order collection that satisfies the following criteria.
We want to find one where the ticket is equal to the ticket that we just found.
So Mongoose is going to take this right here.
It's going to essentially pull off just the idea that ticket and then take a look at all the orders
inside of our collection and find one where the ticket is equal to the ticket we just found.
And the next part is a bit more tricky.
It's where we're going to take a look at all the statuses and make sure that we get an order status
where it is not equal to canceled.
So we're going to ride out.
We're going to take a look at all the statuses of all these different orders.
And we're going to add in an object here with the inn operator.
So notice we've got dollar sign in right there.
This is a special MongoDB operator.
So this is going to cause MongoDB to take a look at all of our orders and it's going to find a status
where the status is in some set of values that we're going to write in in an array right here.
So we want to try to find an order where the status is equal to order status dot created.
Or order status dot awaiting payment or order status.
Paid or order status.
We don't have a paid one, do we?
We have a complete.
I'm going to very quickly go up to the top of the file import order status from our common module and
then describe once again what's going on with this query.
So back up here from my common module, I will get order status.
And all those areas should now go away.
Okay.
So this query right here does pretty much what we just wrote out inside this comet.
It's going to try to find an order or existing inside of our database that is taking a look at the ticket
we just found and has a status that is created awaiting payment or complete.
If we find an order that is referencing this ticket and has been created, is awaiting payment or is
complete, that means the ticket is already reserved and the user who is making this request cannot
attempt to reserve the ticket that they're trying to reserve.
A better name for this variable right here rather than order might be something like existing order
to say, hey, this is some existing order that someone else has already created.
It's not right after that.
If we find some existing order, we might not actually get a result from this query.
So if we find an existing order, if it's actually defined, then that means that this ticket is already
reserved and we want to return early from this route.
Handler So very similar to what we just did above.
We can say if existing order.
And notice in this case that we're not putting on the exclamation.
Previous one had an exclamation because we wanted to handle the case in which there was not a ticket.
In this case, we want to say if there is an order, then we want to return early and we want to send
back or throw some kind of air.
So in this case, we'll throw a new bad request air.
Let's make sure we import that at the top as well.
So at our common module once again, I'll get bad request error.
Now, I've still got an error here because we are supposed to provide a message describing why this
request failed so we could put in some kind of message to send back to the user.
Something like ticket is already reserved.
And that's it.
Now, as we look at this code right here, I just want you to notice that, well, this is kind of a
lot of logic to stuff into a root handler.
In addition, there might be other scenarios inside of our application, specifically inside this order
service, where you want to figure out whether or not a ticket has been reserved.
So we're going to take a quick pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we're going to take this logic and refactor it out to a separate
file, because as you will soon see, there actually are some other scenarios where we want to figure
out whether or not a ticket has been reserved.
So quick pause.
Let's take care of that in just a moment.